---
title: "Julie, Jules, Jackie"
date: 2020-10-19T12:14:34+06:00
image: "images/post/post-7.jpg"
author: "Jamison M Sheppard" # use capitalize
description: "e, Jules, Jackie, whatever her name was, she was a time traveling agent"
categories: ["Fiction, Flash Fiction"]
tags: ["Flash Fiction"]
draft: false
---

Julie, Jules, Jackie, whatever her name was, she was a time traveling agent. Her job was to reverse the course of history by altering the details of the past. Current mission: prevent Maverick MacArthur from making love to a complete stranger. The reasoning behind such an MO? Mr MacArthur just happens to produce the offspring that started World War III. The ironic part of post-abortion America is that murder happens everyday when you can see the future to the exact moment of conception with the preciseness of plus or minus two thrusts. The child, who in an alternate version of reality would have committed horrific crimes, was sentenced by a court of life-appointed, mostly conservative judges, to never being borne in the first place. The work was unpleasant, nerve-wracking mostly, as there was no room for error being the logistics of time travel were still intrinsically complicated and not to be tempted in excess of ‘one fucking time‘ as Jules’ or whatever her name was’ supervising director had said before eyeing her incredible Amazonian figure from head-to-toe in the creepy way that men of the pre-time-traveling generation do before looking at his watch and starting the countdown process with a passcode Agent J was 90% sure ended in 1-2-3-4. She was unceremoniously transported to 2016—the year Maverick MacArthur was conceived and subsequently went on to found the political party that sunk the United States government through budget mismanagement which led to the Chinese recovering the formerly United States’ nuclear arsenal and deciding to send them all on a mission to Mars, quite literally, except due to budget re-appropriations certain federal facilities had fallen in disrepair including the bunkers that housed America’s nuclear stockpile and so instead of shot into space there was a dud-too-many and it ignited a chain reaction wildfire that swallowed America’s west coast in a cloud of radiation smoke during a historic drought—decimating the hopes that human beings as a species could survive on their own very planet, which was enough to invoke a literal World War Z because that was the war that *ended it*, capital ‘A’ All.

Miss J. VanderHoof was one of two agents of the Federal Bureau of Time Modification to be selected for this assignment which was set to occur at exactly 33 seconds past nautical sunset in the lakeside tourist town of St. Marquette, inside Uncle Ducky’s on 1st Avenue and Alabama St, a mere thirteen seconds from now, timing being so important due to the unfortunate consequences of spending much of it outside of the regular timeline of human life—those consequences being accelerated aging. Minutes turns to years. The skin sags around the eyes and belly fat gets concentrated in unappealing areas. Hair thins, some men lose it all. Agent Foster, may he rest in peace, got caught up in traffic on the exit route and never came home. It was risky work in terms of personal well-being but it paid well enough for Miss VanderHoof to retire at 60, a milestone she no longer viewed with the exponential possibility of youth. Jules was already 30 and looking the prime of her life face-to-face and not really trying to think about the slight possibility that a fuck up would put her dramatically closer to middle-age than 30, the thought of which, in today’s culture, was enough to kill a girl.

The exact logistics of the situation were as follows: Mr MacArthur enters the bar and immediately heads for the restroom. Miss Margaret, *Conceptee*, as the Bureau was calling her, is already seated with her two girlfriends two tables to the southwest of the restroom entrance which is filled with vaguely Irish black and white photographs of men doing 20th century tasks like driving vehicles and spending money and will catch the eye of Mr MacArthur and by this time it will be too late to prevent the end of the world. Like all men who seek great power, he is at least two inches shorter than he claims to be but strides with the visible certainty of self-assured greatness. His ego hangs like a carrot in front of him but he is good-looking in a way one notices immediately and cannot take one’s eyes away from without looking twice. Conceptee and Mr MacArthur make eye contact within six seconds of his entering the building. Block this eye contact and it’s over.

At this exact moment Agent J carrying a tray of full beers crosses the field of vision Mr MacArthur coming through the doorway and he pauses and follows her ass with just his eyes in that obvious way men of the post-time-traveling world do. Miss Margaret sitting across the bar in her booth with her girlfriends sees Agent J pass by the man at the door, sees how absolutely perfect her figure is and immediately grows jealous of her and angry at the man at the door for ignoring her own beauty over that gigantic bitch, which is what Miss Margaret will think of as Jules passes the beers out to a booth in the middle of the room, bending far over to pass the drinks to heavyset thirsty-looking men and with spot-on playgirl banter  she’ll look over her shoulder at Mr MacArthur and 100% destroy any chance Mr MacArthur had of having sex with Miss Margaret as the look on his face will be one she’s never witnessed before and it will frighten her because she will think for an instant, *I will never have a man look at me that way,* and she will presume into an in-bent cycle of self-deprecation in which she ends her own chances of getting laid because after seeing Jacky’s fantastic backside strut away and puzzlingly out the front door of Uncle Ducky’s and into the street and the moving car that is actually a time machine hooked up to deliver Jules 36 years into the future, the boy who was to seed the sperm of the most violent, misogynist, fuck-up of all time saw the average, wincing face of Miss Margaret and decided that that girl wasn’t worth even a moment of his time because she wasn’t as pretty as Jules or Jackie or whatever her name was, all he caught was the glimpse of her waitress’ uniform’s nameplate as her fantastic ass strode out of his sight forever.
